Editorial review: Document the flex-wrap balance keyword and flex-line-count property (#44896)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/flex-line-count/index.md

---
title: "`flex-line-count` CSS property"
short-title: flex-line-count
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/flex-line-count
page-type: css-property
browser-compat: css.properties.flex-line-count
sidebar: cssref
---

The **`flex-line-count`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the minimum number of flex lines that flex items will be balanced over in cases where a flex container's {{cssxref("flex-wrap")}} or {{cssxref("flex-flow")}} property includes the `balance` keyword.

{{InteractiveExample("CSS Demo: flex-line-count")}}

> ```css interactive-example-choice

Reviewer: As the first three examples produce identical results, this looks like it's not doing anything and either broken or a feature not supported in the user's browser, until you hit the last example.

Author: This isn't correct. The first two examples produce identical results.

I've removed the second choice so that this is no longer a problem.

    <div>Item Five</div>
    <div>Item Six</div>
  </div>
</section>
```

```css interactive-example
#example-element {
  border: 1px solid #c5c5c5;
  width: 80%;
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap balance;
}

#example-element > div {
  background-color: rgb(0 0 255 / 0.2);
  border: 3px solid blue;
  width: 60px;
  margin: 10px;
}
```

## Syntax

```css
/* Integer values */
flex-line-count: 1;
flex-line-count: 3;
flex-line-count: 12;

/* Global values */
flex-line-count: inherit;
flex-line-count: initial;
flex-line-count: revert;
flex-line-count: revert-layer;
flex-line-count: unset;
```

### Values

This property is specified as the following value:

- {{cssxref("integer")}}
  - : A positive integer setting the minimum number of flex lines that balanced, wrapped flex items will be distributed over. The default value is `1`.

## Description

The `flex-line-count` property sets the minimum number of flex lines that flex items will be distributed over in wrapping, balanced flex containers — in other words, flex containers that include a {{cssxref("flex-wrap")}} or {{cssxref("flex-flow")}} property with the `balance` keyword set in addition to the `wrap` or `wrap-reverse` keyword.

> A key use case for `flex-line-count` is creating a balanced set of two (or more) columns. This is useful for cases such as wiki reference sections, where the layout requirement might be a set number of balanced columns, regardless of the number of items in the list. Setting an explicit {{cssxref("height")}} or {{cssxref("max-height")}} in this case doesn't work, as you don't know how much content you will have, and threfore may end up with less or more columns than desired. See [Creating balanced columns](#creating_balanced_columns) for an example implementation.

Reviewer: I don't think most readers will automatically know what a wiki reference section is.

> A key use case for `flex-line-count` is creating a balanced set of two (or more) columns. This is useful for cases such as wiki reference sections, where the layout requirement might be a set number of balanced columns, regardless of the number of items in the list. Setting an explicit {{cssxref("height")}} or {{cssxref("max-height")}} in this case doesn't work, as you don't know how much content you will have, and threfore may end up with less or more columns than desired. See [Creating balanced columns](#creating_balanced_columns) for an example implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A key use case for `flex-line-count` is creating a balanced set of two (or more) columns,, where the layout requirement might be a set number of balanced columns, regardless of the number of items in a list. In such cases, setting an explicit {{cssxref("height")}} or {{cssxref("max-height")}}  won't work as you don't know how much content you will have, and may end up with fewer or more columns than desired. See [Creating balanced columns](#creating_balanced_columns) for an example implementation.
```

> If `balance` is not included, or if flex items are not set to wrap onto multiple flex lines, the `flex-line-count` property has no effect. If `balance` is set, but `flex-line-count` is omitted or explicitly set to `1`, the `balance` value has no effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `balance` is not included, or if flex items are not set to wrap onto multiple flex lines, the `flex-line-count` property has no effect.
```
remove `flex-line-count` from the 3 example. Having no flex-line-count differs from the `no-balance` example, but is the same as the 1, 2, 3, and 4 examples. This line must be removed.

Author: Yes, it's not right, is it. Removed.

  <div>Four</div>
  <div>Five</div>
  <div>Six</div>
  <div>Seven</div>
  <div>Eight</div>
  <div>Nine</div>
  <div>Ten</div>
</div>

<p><code>flex-line-count: 3</code></p>

<div class="box" id="box1">
  <div>One</div>
  <div>Two</div>
  <div>Three</div>
  <div>Four</div>
  <div>Five</div>
  <div>Six</div>
  <div>Seven</div>
  <div>Eight</div>
  <div>Nine</div>
  <div>Ten</div>
</div>

<p><code>flex-line-count: 4</code></p>

<div class="box" id="box2">
  <div>One</div>
  <div>Two</div>
  <div>Three</div>
  <div>Four</div>
  <div>Five</div>
  <div>Six</div>
  <div>Seven</div>
  <div>Eight</div>
  <div>Nine</div>
  <div>Ten</div>
</div>

<p><code>flex-line-count: 5</code></p>

<div class="box" id="box3">
  <div>One</div>
  <div>Two</div>
  <div>Three</div>
  <div>Four</div>
  <div>Five</div>
  <div>Six</div>
  <div>Seven</div>
  <div>Eight</div>
  <div>Nine</div>
  <div>Ten</div>
</div>
```

#### CSS

```css hidden live-sample___flex-line-count
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

.box {
  width: 100%;
  border: 2px dotted gray;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
  gap: 10px;
}

.box > * {
  border: 2px solid rgb(96 139 168);
  border-radius: 5px;
  background-color: lightgray;
}
```

> We apply `display: flex` to all the boxes to make them into flex containers, then give them a `flex-wrap` value of `wrap balance` to make all their flex children wrap onto multiple lines in a balanced fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We apply `display: flex` to all the boxes to make them flex containers, then give them a `flex-wrap` value of `wrap balance` to make all their flex children wrap onto multiple, balanced lines.
```

```css live-sample___flex-line-count
.box {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap balance;
}
```

We also set a {{cssxref("flex")}} value of `1 1 150px` on the flex children, so they have a base width of `150px` and will distribute any excess space evenly across the items in each flex line.

```css live-sample___flex-line-count
.box > * {
  flex: 1 1 150px;
}
```

> Next, we apply a different `flex-line-count` value to each flex container. For the `#box-no-balance` flex container, we also override the original `flex-wrap: wrap balance` value with `wrap`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `#box-no-balance` flex container, we remove the balancing, thereby nullifying the line count, by overriding the original `flex-wrap: wrap balance` value with `wrap`. Next, we apply a different `flex-line-count` value to each flex container, incrementing the value so their balanced children are laid out over a progressively greater number of flex lines.
```
moved from below

Author: OK, mostly used.

```css live-sample___flex-line-count
#box-no-balance {
  flex-line-count: 6;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
}

#box1 {
  flex-line-count: 3;
}

#box2 {
  flex-line-count: 4;
}

#box3 {
  flex-line-count: 5;
}
```

We've hidden the rest of the CSS for brevity.

#### Results

{{ EmbedLiveSample("flex-line-count", "100%", "700") }}

Note the effect of the different property combinations:

- As the first flex container doesn't have the `balance` keyword set in its `flex-wrap` value, its children are not given a balanced distribution and its `flex-line-count` value is ignored.

> - The flex items of the other flex containers are balanced, with their children laid out over a progressively greater number of flex lines as the `flex-line-count` value increases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
moved up.

Author: Ah, in the next suggestion? OK, removed.

> - Note that the second flex container has `flex-line-count: 3` set on it, but this actually makes no difference to the layout of its flex children, because they fit on a minimum of three lines anyway. You can prove this by inspecting the second flex container using your browser's developer tools and disabling the `flex-line-count` property — the layout should not change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The second flex container's `flex-line-count: 3` declaration doesn't effect the layout of the flex children; as the flex items are by default distributed over four flex lines, any value of `4` or less has no effect.
```
the important part is that any the property only has an effect when the value is larger than the default number of flex lines.  balance has an effect, but not FLC. Which is why we must remove the second sentence on line 88. It can be replaced with the sentence I just wrote if you want.

Author: This is pretty good. Used.

    released March 12, 2014.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Echoes of the Fallow Field</a>, published by Northbridge Press,
    released July 4, 2009.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">A Ledger of Small Regrets</a>, published by Ashwood & Kline,
    released November 21, 2017.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">The Clockmaker's Daughter's Shadow</a>, published by Hollow Pine
    Publishing, released February 8, 2011.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Salt and Signal</a>, published by Redcliffe Editions, released
    September 30, 2019.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Under a Borrowed Sky</a>, published by Fenwick & Marsh, released
    May 16, 2006.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">The Last Cartel of Winter</a>, published by Graywolf Bindery,
    released January 2, 2021.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Notes from an Unfinished Atlas</a>, published by Coastline
    Books, released June 27, 2013.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">The Weight of Empty Rooms</a>, published by Draymoor House,
    released October 15, 2008.
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">A Brief History of Almost Everyone</a>, published by Ferngate
    Press, released April 9, 2022.
  </li>
</ol>
```

#### CSS

> We set the list's {{cssxref("display")}} to `flex` with a {{cssxref("gap")}} of `10px` between flex items and `40px` between flex lines. We then set a {{cssxref("flex-direction")}} value of `column` and a {{cssxref("flex-wrap")}} value of `balance` using the {{cssxref("flex-flow")}} shorthand so that the flex lines are arranged in columns and will balance when wrapped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We set the list's {{cssxref("display")}} to `flex`. We set a {{cssxref("flex-direction")}} value of `column`and a {{cssxref("flex-wrap")}} value of `balance` using the {{cssxref("flex-flow")}} shorthand so that the flex lines are arranged in columns and will balance when wrapped. The {{cssxref("gap")}} value `10px 40px` specifies a gap of `10px` between flex items within each column and `40px` between flex lines.
```
put gap after direction b/c gap actually sets row-gap & column-gap, in that order, so it doesn't set the between items and between lines until after column is set. This order will be less confusing to those wondering about property value order. But, if we keep the original order, we need to be more pedantic in the explanation.

Author: OK, updated
